SUDAN
 June 05, 2022

1. Company documents indicate that Mr. Prigozhin is the beneficial owner of Meroe Gold, a large gold mining company in Sudan. During a recent trip to Sudan, our team visited the Meroe gold refinery at Al Ibidiyah in the Nile State. Is this the company's largest gold mine in Sudan? Does Meroe have other gold businesses in Sudan?

I have nothing to do with the Meroe Gold company, this company has never belonged to me, I do not know anything about this company. I have never been the founder of the Meroe Gold company, which, according to you, is engaged in gold mining in Sudan. The information that I am the beneficial owner of Meroe Gold is a lie and fiction, which is the result of the work of half-educated specialists who collect unverified and unreliable information, which is then stuffed by unqualified journalists.

I checked the Meroe Gold company information. Company name Meroe Gold Co.Ltd. (by analogy with Russian legislation, a limited liability company). The company is registered at: Khartoum, Al-Jref Gharb Plot 134, Blok 1h. The main activity of the company is the extraction of other ores of non-ferrous metals. The company is currently in liquidation. The founders of this company never listed any Prigozhins or people with a similar last name. And I, unfortunately, have never had gold mining companies.

2. Can you give at least an approximate estimate of the annual gold production in Meroe? Does it sell gold in the UAE or other markets?
You received an answer to the first question, in which I provided detailed information that I have nothing to do with Meroe Gold. I am also not aware of what Meroe Gold mines and where it sells. Once again, I want to note that this company never belonged to me. I have never been a member of the Meroe Gold company, which, according to you, is engaged in gold mining in Sudan.

3. Are the Meroe plants in Sudan being guarded by Russian private military contractors?
Since I have nothing to do with the Meroe Gold company and this company has never belonged to me, I do not know who provides security for the Meroe gold plant. I have never been there.

4. Russian customs documents show that on June 5, 2019, Meroe exported 12,557 kg of police batons, helmets and defensive shields to Sudan. What were these items for?

I don't know anything about Russian customs documents and their origin. I don't know where you got these documents on the basis of which you draw these conclusions. And I have no idea who, why and where exported 12,557 kg of police batons, helmets and defensive shields. Once again, I repeat that I have nothing to do with Meroe Gold.

5. Sudanese officials have provided us with details of 16 Russian military flights between February and June 2021, from Latakia to Syria and Port Sudan. Officials stated that these flights were ordered by Meroe. They believe that some of them returned to Syria/Russia with undeclared gold. Is it true?

I am not aware of 16 Russian military flights between February and June 2021 from Latakia to Syria and Port Sudan. I have nothing to do with Meroe Gold. And I am not a Russian military man.

I ask you a similar question, Mr Walsh.

In the city of Yakutsk, there is an old one-legged woman who could have been raped by a transsexual with a severe degree of schizophrenia, after which the one-legged sick woman could give birth to a child with a severe mental disability, whom a group of criminals would want to make the President of the United States. Can you say that you are guilty of everything and are ready to confess that you are one of the above persons, a one-legged woman, or the one who raped her, or a child with mental disabilities, or one of a group of criminals ?

Analyze your questions, they sound exactly the same.

6. In 2020, the US Department of the Treasury claimed that Meroe Gold and M Invest were "a cover for the PMC Wagner forces* operating in Sudan. What is your reaction to this statement?

I have nothing to do with Meroe Gold and M Invest. I have never been a member of Meroe Gold or M Invest. I believe that the information about my association with Meroe Gold and M Invest is false and fabricated.

I am not aware of any evidence that the Wagner Group* exists. The legend of "Wagner" is only a legend.
  
7. What is your relationship with the Sudanese commander, General Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, known as Hemidti?

I have no relationship with Mohamed Hamdan Daglo. I have never seen him or been interested in his life.

8. According to Russian press reports, you flew with General Daglo's brother Abdel Rahim from Sudan to Russia in April 2019. Is this true?

You are using unverified data, I have no connections to the people you mentioned, so I don't know who and where flew. I certainly did not fly with them.

9. Does Sudan provide a base for Wagner* operations in the CAR and Libya?

I am not familiar with Wagner and have no information about the bases. The legend of Wagner is just a legend. As far as I know, there are 1,135 instructors from the Russian Federation in the CAR, who have been arriving there at the official invitation of the President of the CAR since 2018 and with the consent of the UN. I have read in the media a large number of positive comments about the work of Russian instructors in the CAR, which give, both representatives of the authorities of the CAR and residents. The Russian instructors are training the CAR army, and the army they trained was able to effectively resist the bandits and terrorists who attacked the CAR in late 2020. So far, the CAR army has pushed the bandits beyond the borders of the CAR and is effectively fighting crime. For the first time in decades, there is peace in the CAR. The people of the CAR believe that Russian instructors saved the country from genocide. The CAR authorities even erected a monument to the defenders of the country, which the residents of Bangui call a monument to the Russian instructors.

If you have information on this issue, please share, I will try to verify it with official inquiries.

10. Are your actions in Sudan aimed at supporting Russia's goal of establishing a naval base on the Red Sea in Port Sudan?

I am a businessman and have nothing to do with the establishment of a Russian naval base on the Red Sea in Port Sudan. As a private person, having studied the question, I do not understand why Russia might need a naval base on the Red Sea.

11. Is there a Wagner Group* in Darfur right now?

You are using unverified and unreliable sources. The legend of Wagner is just a legend. I do not know who is and who is not in Darfur.
If you mean the Volkswagen concern, which goes by the name WAGNER Group of Companies, then you should contact the Volkswagen concern (https://www.wagner-auto.ru/) and if you mean the group of admirers of the German composer and conductor Wilhelm Richard Wagner, then you should contact the fan associations (http://www.wagneroperas.com/; https://wagnersociety.org/; https://wagnersocietyny.org/) to get an answer.

*a group of individuals referred to by some media as a private military structure whose existence has not been confirmed

12. Last year, Mr. Prigozhin donated 198 tons of humanitarian aid to a local charity, Baladna for Development, through Meroe Gold for Agriculture. How would you describe the purpose of these donations? Why didn't you donate again for Ramadan this year?

Yes, I donated humanitarian aid because I have a deep personal sexual relationship with Sudanese women citizens, please note, not male citizens. I like them very much. One of them told me: (in Arabic) "Dear, can you donate 198 tons of humanitarian aid to the Sudanese people?" So, I began to donate. And donated until I donated 198 tons exactly. The Sudanese woman (women) with whom I have friendly, companionship, working and sexual relations for some reason did not ask me to do so for Ramadan this year. Perhaps this is my mistake. If you think I should do this next time, it would make sense for you to exercise your investigative skills and meet with this woman (women) and convey this request to me through them. I'm sorry, I can't give you their names and addresses, though I'm as open as a piece of paper in front of you.

13. The humanitarian aid had the slogan "From Russia with Love" in Arabic. Is this a reference to the 1963 James Bond film of the same name?

I was two years old in 1963. I don't remember that time well and I don't know who James Bond is. "From Russia with Love" is a reference to love and reciprocity between the peoples of Russia and Sudan without the sexual connotation.
  
I hope I have answered your questions in full.
